JavaScript:
	a scripting language as well as, nowadys considered as, a programming language
	mainly a language for the web
	loosely typed language: no strict data typing. use "var" keyword to declare any variable.
	it is object-based programming language, NOT object-oriented
	It is a dynamic language, since JS code is loaded during runtime (when the HTML is loaded in the browser, that time JS is also loaded in the browser and supplied to JS egine for compilation and execution) and then it gets evaluted (compiled) and executed. As a result, during development time there is no compile-time checking of your JS code.


All scripting languages follow a guideline as decided by an organization: ECMA
the guideline is known as ECMAScript

1994 -> JS was introduced
ES2, ES3, ES4, ES5 etc. (older versions)

Like re-invention of JS:
2015 -> ES6
2016-2023 -> ES7, ES8, ES9, ES10, ES11, ES12, ES13, ES14

basics of JS:
data types in JS
	- String, number, bool and Object, undefined, NaN, NULL, Infinity
	In JS, there is no character data type. hence, double quotes and single quotes are same
	"a" or 'a' => string
	In JS there is no separate data type for floating point and non-fractional (Integer) type values

	a variable at any point of time can be assigned to any value. the data type of the variable is evaluated during runtime, NOT during compile time, since there is no separate compile time checking for JS. that's why JS is dynamic language.

operators
control flow statements


what is HTML DOM?
	whenever an HTML document is loaded in the browser memory space to be displayed in the browser window, the browser itself (thorugh the help of HTML parser) creates a series of objects, representing the HTML tags (elements), which are organized in an hierarchical (tree-like) structure. that structure of collection of HTML tag or element related objects, is known as, HTML DOM.
	these objects can be manipulated from JS code.

what are browser DOM library and DOM APIs?
	every browser has a rich set of library with lots of built-in functionalities which can be accessed from JS code in order to manipulate the HTML DOM elements (objects). The built-in set of functionalities of DOM library of browser is known as HTML DOM APIs.

The browser DOM library APIs are accessible from JS code, and during the time of JS code execution, the DOM library supplies the definition of those APIs, used in JS code.


objects and asynchronous method call in JS
ajax:
	XMLHttpRequest helps you send asynchronous rqeust to backend server application and returns the response

	state of XMLHttpRequest object: 
	property: readystate
	values: 
	0 => object created
	1 => request send
	2 => request has been received by server
	3 => request is being processed
	4 => request processed and response is received

	every time the readystate value changes from 0->1, 1->2, 2->3, 3->4 an event of XMLHttpRequest objects gets fired: "readystatechange"
	so, the XMLHttpRequest object provides a property "onreadystatechange", so that you can pass any function and that function will be called back whenever that event occurs

	fetch response:
		responseText
		responseXML

"{
	"mesage":"record found",
	"responseData":{
		"categoryId":1,
		"description":"book by paul cohelo",
		"price":399.74,
		"productId":1,
		"productName":"the alchemist"
	},
	"statusCode":200
}"
		

	
	



			
